So, basic syntax kind of out of the way,
variables, types, things like that,
which kind of seems
familiar to JavaScript.
The next section I'd like to talk
about are some of the more complex
structures that go has and
JavaScript is not.
So functions, although they start
out looking a little similar,
they take arguments and
they return values.
The function signatures and how they're
defined are a little bit unique to go.
So, as you see on the slide here, our
function print age takes in one argument.
It's called age, it's named age and
it is set to an integer type.
And that word to the right
of the closing parentheses,
that second int indicates what
type is function must return.
It's not optional,
every time this function gets called,
it must return an integer value.
And then the code within the curly braces
will be the code that we execute within
that function.
But you will notice that last line return,
we're returning out the value of
age which needs to be an integer.
So you'll notice that so far in our
main function we haven't been passing at
anything and we haven't been returning
anything and that's because as that main
entry point of our application,
it's job is just run your whole program.
You're not gonna be
passing at anything and
it doesn't need to do anything with
the value at the end of the day.
So the next function is we're gonna be
writing will be a little bit more complex,
involving some of these arguments and
return values.
So let's hop over to functions.go,
Okay, so we're in functions.go and
the fourth section of complex structures.
And if we go ahead and copy that
first function we saw in the slide,
which is print age, it took that
age argument which was an integer.
We wanted it to return an integer and
then execute some code within
the curly braces here.
The code we want, we're just gonna
go ahead and print out that age.
But then because our function is
requiring us to return an integer,
we need to return age
at the end of the day.
In order to call that code,
we can go in our main function here and
we'll call printAge and
hand it some sort of integer.
If i run the program now, so go run or
in section four in the code directory and
functions.go, you'll see that we
print out our age, everyone's happy.
If necessary, go also allows us
to return more than one thing.
So we can add multiple return values of
a function by putting them in parentheses,
still between our first
argument parentheses block and
then our opening curly brace.
And so now if I were to save this and
run this file, it's actually working.
I don't know if you caught that but
when I hit Save,
my linter helped me out there and
it inserted a default value.
So that go wouldn't get mad.
So I can't actually save it and
make this go without that at the moment.
But this will require our function to
now return two integers rather than one.
And if we weren't to do that in
an actual runtime environment,
we would get an error.
Another interesting aspect
of go is if we wanted to,
over here we just have
some blank integers.
We could also actually
name our return values.
And modify the code within our
print age function a little bit.
So let's say our first one
is gonna be age of Sally.
Our second one is the age of Bob.
And then in our function here,
let's say we had
a couple values that actually
pertained to both Sally and Bob.
So you'll notice here that I don't
have to use the colon equal sign,
the syntax of this where I have the name
of the variable on the left and
then the value on the right
where there's no var keyword,
there's no colon equal sign,
and there's no type name.
Indicates that somewhere in this function
those variables have already been
declared.
And even though they're in the return
values, I'm still saying hey,
go instantiate a couple placeholders
of two variables with these names and
these types,
which means I can reassign that value
in the function without go getting mad.
So I've got a job Bob is 21,
age of Sally, we'll make her 16.
And then if I want to, I can actually
just kill all of this, running the code.
I'm missing a return at
the end of the function,
because I do need the word return.
But I don't have to explicitly now
say return age of Bob, age of Sally.
I'm gonna modify this to show the actual
return value that we get within print age.
So with that print line
function added to our main,
you see that we are now returning
two different values 16 and 21.
Although our print age is still
expecting an age integer,
we're not doing anything with it,
which is a contrived example.
That doesn't make a lot of sense.
But ultimately, what this function
allows us to do is redefine two
variables that we expect this function
to return and then return them.
Kind of implicitly without having to
specify that in our return statement on
line eight
>> So
the main function prints 8, is there
a way to make that print 21 and 16?
>> So it actually is printing 21 and
16, the 8 is a little
bit confusing here cuz we're no longer
doing anything with that in the function.
If I were to kill eight right now,
I'm going to get an error because there
are not enough arguments
in call to print age.
And that's because right now we're still
expecting print age to exhort, like,
except an age integer.
If I go ahead and
kill this up here, resave and
then rerun our function it
makes a little bit more sense.
It's not expecting any age argument but
we're still printing out
age of Sally age of Bob.
So you'll notice that our function
is returning two different values,
we've got 16 and 21.
We're not really doing anything
with that on line 12 here, but
let's re-factor this and we're going to
set up the syntax where you can save and
declare two variables at the same time.
So knowing that print age returns two
things based on our function signature
here, we know it does return two integers.
We can say hey, age one, age two,
I wanna assign you both,
both of you values to the result
of the print age function.
So because print age returns two things,
we can immediately assign two variables,
those values respectively.
And then if I wanted to print
them down here instead,
I'm going to print line age one,
and then age two.
The last example of functions I'd like
to talk about real quick is
the concept of a varriatic function.
And so right now we have print
age accepting no values.
I'm gonna modify this to have it return,
just an integer or
kind of got to back
things up a little bit.
[SOUND] cool, and then let's
say I wanna call print age and
I'm passing it a few different arguments.
All of which are numbers.
Let's make these actually ages,
how about 16, 21 and 30.
Age is accepting three different integers.
I could either [SOUND] specify in
my function signature that print
age should accept three different ages,
all of which are integers,
and then return some sort of
integer at the end of the day.
But if I'm not sure how
many integers I'm passing,
I just know I wanna do
something with all of them.
It also provides a similar
kind of spread operator
Which would look something like this,
where the first argument represents
the collection of things you're passing
and the syntax on the right indicates that
it's gonna be some unknown quantity
of integers that you're dealing with.
And you can behave
the same way inside here.
And then at this point,
ages becomes a collection and so
you'd iterate over it similar to the for
loop with the range key word.
Okay, so since we've refactored
our function to accept
a spread operator kind of thing,
a variadic function, a set of ages.
We're gonna remove the int here since
that doesn't make sense anymore.
And let's iterate over the ages and
print those out one by one.
So for
that we're gonna go back to our for loop.
We're not gonna need the index,
I'm gonna automatically put
that underscore in there.
A second argument is the value.
And it's assigned it to a value
of the range keyword and
then what we're iterating
over which here is the ages.
The set of ages that this
function will accept.
So within this function, I'm going
to just print out [SOUND] the value.
But you'll notice that now because
I've modified what's happening in this
function, it's no longer
returning an integer.
So in order for
this function signature to be accurate,
we'll also need to remove
what that function returns.
So if I run that file once again,
you'll now see each of those
print out individually but
I no longer have to be super specific
about what I pass into this function.
It gives me a little bit more freedom to
not know what's happening in the program.